// Perform a research (e.g. in Google or Wikipedia) and provide a short list with popular development environments (IDEs) like Visual Studio.
// Write in a text file called  “list-of-IDEs.txt”  at least five IDEs along with 2-3 sentences about each of them. Use English.


Microsoft Visual Studio

Microsoft Visual Studio is an integrated development environment (IDE) from Microsoft. It is used to develop computer programs for Microsoft Windows, as well as web sites, web applications and web services. This IDE is mostly used by corporate programmers to produce .NET code. Visual Studio uses Microsoft software development platforms such as Windows API, Windows Forms, Windows Presentation Foundation, Windows Store and Microsoft Silverlight. It can produce both native code and managed code. Visual Studio includes a code editor supporting IntelliSense - Microsoft’s way to make programming in .NET as painless as possible. When you start programming in Visual Studios IDE you will notice a suggestion box will appear when you start typing anything within the IDE, this is to notify the user what methods and functions are available. When clicking on one of the methods in the suggestion box the environment will tell you exactly what the method will do and how many and what parameters are needed. The integrated debugger works both as a source-level debugger and a machine-level debugger. It accepts plug-ins that enhance the functionality at almost every level—including adding support for source-control systems and adding new toolsets like editors and visual designers for domain-specific languages or toolsets for other aspects of the software development lifecycle. Built-in languages include C, C++ and C++/CLI, VB.NET, C#, and F#. As of Visual Studio 2010 support for other languages such as M, Python, and Ruby among others is available via language services installed separately. It also supports XML/XSLT, HTML/XHTML, JavaScript and CSS. But it supports different programming languages and allows the code editor and debugger to support (to a varying degree) nearly any programming language, provided a language-specific service exists. In addition, you are also able to develop for the Windows x86, Windows RT, and Windows Phone. The latest version of Visual Studio is also designed to be optimized for touch, just in case you happen to be writing code on a Microsoft Surface. 


Xamarin Studio and Xamarin for Visual Studio

Xamarin Studio is a standalone IDE for mobile app development. It is a part of the Xamarin Platform that unifies Xamarin's previousty separate iOS, Android and OSX development tools into a single platform. It is based on the open source project MonoDevelop IDE. Xamarin.iOS and Xamarin.Android make it possible to do native iOS, Android and Windows development in C#, with either Xamarin Studio or Visual Studio. Developers re-use their existing C# code, and share significant code across device platforms. With a C# shared codebase, developers can use Xamarin to write native iOS, Android and Windows apps with native user interfaces and share code across multiple platforms. In addition to a debugger, Xamarin Studio includes code completion in C#, an Android UI builder for creating user interfaces without XML and integration with Xcode Interface Builder for iOS app design. Xamarin for Visual Studio claims to be the only IDE that allows for native iOS, Android and Windows app development within Microsoft Visual Studio and it uses code completion and IntelliSense. Xamarin for Visual Studio also has extensions within Microsoft Visual Studio that provide support for the building, deploying, and debugging of apps on a simulator or a device.


MonoDevelop

MonoDevelop is an open source IDE for Linux, OSX, Windows, FreeBSD, OpenBSD and Solaris. Its primary focus is development of projects that use Mono and .NET frameworks. MonoDevelop integrates features similar to those of NetBeans and Microsoft Visual Studio such as automatic code completion, source control, a graphical user interface (GUI) and Web designer. MonoDevelop integrates a Gtk# GUI designer called Stetic. It supports Boo, C, C++, C#, CIL, D, F#, Java, Oxygene, Python, Vala and Visual Basic.NET. In late 2003, a few developers from the Mono community began migrating SharpDevelop, a successful .NET open source IDE from System.Windows.Forms on Windows to Gtk# on Linux. Being an early fork of SharpDevelop, MonoDevelop architecturally differs from recent SharpDevelop releases.


SharpDevelop

SharpDevelop is a free and open source IDE for the .NET Framework, Mono, Gtk# and Glade# platforms. It can only be used with a Windows OS. It supports development in C#, Visual Basic.NET, Boo, F#, IronPython and IronRuby programming languages. It was designed as a free and lightweight alternative to Microsoft Visual Studio and contains an equivalent feature for almost every essential Visual Studio Express feature, including features for project management, code editing, application compiling and debugging. To allow for easy project migration, SharpDevelop works natively with Visual Studio project and code files. SharpDevelop is written entirely in C# and consists of about 20 components that integrate to form the application. The source code editor component is known as AvalonEdit and can be used by other applications.


XCode

Xcode is an IDE containing a suite of software development tools developed by Apple for developing software for OS X and iOS. It only works on OSX. Xcode can build universal binaries, which allow software to run on both PowerPC and Intel-based (x86) platforms and that can include both 32-bit and 64-bit code for both architectures. Using the iOS SDK, Xcode can also be used to compile and debug applications for iOS that run on the ARM processor. The Xcode suite also includes most of Apple's developer documentation, and built-in Interface Builder, an application used to construct graphical user interfaces. The Xcode IDE supports C, C++, Objective-C, Objective-C++, Java, AppleScript, Python, Ruby, Rez and Swift source code with a variety of programming models, including but not limited to Cocoa, Carbon and Java. Third parties have added support for GNU Pascal, Free Pascal, Ada, C#, Perl and D.